#### People, Markets and Tech
Often, in the startup world I come across this choice paradox that investors
seem to face. What is the predmoinant critera that drives our investments. 
Do we invest in people first or market first or technology first. Sequoia
proudly invests in markets first and A16Z prodouly invests in people/team. So
what has driven the most tectonic shifts in technology in this century ?

##### The personal computing shift
Don Valentine, in one this 2010
[lecture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nKN-abRJMEw) talks about Sequoia's
belief in markets, especially why he bet on Apple. It was not because of Steve
or Woz, but purely based on his intuition that the cost of computing would 
plummet, thanks to Moore's law and that the personal computing market would
take off. Almost all of Don's bets have been market focused - be it Nvidia or
Zappos. To be honest, it is a combination of technology and market forces at
play, nonetheless it was Don's belief that markets are the ultimate decision
makers. Any reasonably smart group of people will be able to exploit that
market and unleash a revolution.

And Don was so right in his prediction that all of his bets panned out
successfully. Apple established itself as a leader in the personal computing
market. Later years proved not be ot so successful for Apple but that's
besides the point here.

##### The iPod tectonic shift
What transpired at Apple between it's heyday of the 80s and it's near demise is
well documented and understood by most in the industry. What is also well
understood is how the iPhone come into play and pretty much destroyed the rest
of the smartphone players propelling Apple to become the world's first trillion
$ company. Was this again a market first play ? I try to distil my thoughts
around this aspect.

When I look at how Jobs and Woz came to start Apple, based on his biography,
one factor stands out. It was Jobs' desire to somehow free people from the
existing dogma and shackles of the computing industry that prevailed at that
time. It was incredibly difficult for a normal common man to just use a
computer. Somehow that didn't sit well with Jobs. I don't know why. He wanted
to make a computer that everyone could use and that was his relenetless focus.
All his quirkyness, temper and arrogance somehow masked this focus to the
outside world. He just wanted to build a computer that everyone can use. 

The same ideology played out in his music adventure as well. I think Jobs was
so tired of people being forced to buy entire albums that he decided to break
the shackles and enable people to just buy whatever song they wanted. He
espoused this freedom, the freedom for people to have a choice and he bent the
music industry to make it happen. This singluar focus enabled Jobs to bring
about a tectonic shift in the music industry.

##### The iPhone
Jobs took the same philosophy into the phones. Except, he probably did not
imagine iPhone and the resulting iOS ecosystem becoming a behemoth that it is
today. Jobs saw the handsets of the day as he saw the computers pre Apple I.
Not for the common man and so Jobs went about changing that. One could say he
was democratizing smartphones not just for the common man but for the
developers as well. A whole new ecosystem came about and brought livelihood to
millions of developers.

What I am trying to arrive it is, yes the markets are a driving force in
bringing about tectonic shifts in the tech industry, but it is largely the
people with one singular relentless focus towards removing barriers for
technology adoption by the common man, who make these shifts a reality. This is
not just true of Steve Jobs, but of Bezos, Larry, Sergei, and many other
founders, who took the technology democratization to their heart and won the
respective markets.

This ie exactly what Musk is also doing. He is giving people a choice in
automobiles, a green choice. It's not about Musk hating legacy automakers who
have just sat milking the internal combustion engine for centuries. It's not
just how viciously oil companies have tried to decimate electricity as a viable
alternative to gasoline. Above all, it is Musk's belief that given people the
right choice, they will exercise it. This is what Jobs did with Apple, Bezos
with Amazon and pretty much every other tech founder who has built companies to
capture big markets. So yes, Don Valentine is right - you do need large markets
and they become the driving force, but without people like Jobs or Bezos or
Musk - such markets will just lie dormant.

