---
layout: post
title: Web3 - My understanding
---

### Distributed everything
Or decentralization, however we term it, one paradigm shift that we are witnessing is the transition to deentralized computing. Predominantly driven by "cryptocurrencies as the antidote to centralized money printing that is supposedly endangering global finance", school of thought. With that said premise, I tend to think,

* What are the fundamental building blocks that support a said premise. 
* Is the premise valid on the face of it. 
* Is the premise applicable universally.

So reiterating the above premise.
* Premise - A truly global currency is needed that cannot be controlled by state actors so as to enable peer to peer payments across the globe without anyone's intervention.

The first widespread cryptocurrency built on this premise was Bitcoin and every building block that has been presented in the [Bitcoin Whitepaper]() is in support of this premise. The blockchain as presented is the underlying infra that supports such a currency by enabling immutable transactions.
If I question why immutability - the answer is very simple, a tradeoff. You want a decentralized decision making process or a consensus building process - you have to give up mutability as changing any transaction is just not technically feasible. In a centralized system however, one can make changes happen albeit with a ton of difficulty. 

Ethereum follows similar ethos as Bitcoin but the premise of Ethereum is not just enabling a crypto currency or payments infra, it is to enable any generic transaction, or at least that's the way I understand it. When I say transaction, I am talking about a ditributed, strongly consistent transaction as used in database semantics. So a transaction has to get replicated across all nodes in a database cluster in all or nothing fashion. Even if the replication fails on one node, the transaction has to be rolled back. 

This has traditionally been and contines to be a problem even in the centralized distributed world of transactions. In a world of distributed everything, I can't imagine every action fitting into a transaction model and the complexities arising of of such force fitting.

This is where my third premise fails. Universal applicability.

### All or none transactions - Need v/s reality. 

The birth of NoSQL databases is a testament to the fact that not all activities can be and should not be modeled as transactions. Dynamodb was built because one could afford to lose items in a shopping cart as long as they were able to add them again and move on. Transaction semantics does not apply to adding items to a shopping cart, while purists may argue that such an action is indeed a contract between you and the shopping cart. So there are several such actions that don't need transaction semantics starting with something as mundane as loaing a web page. 
Based on this, let me formulate a premise.

* Premise - There is no need for transaction based global distributed systems or blockchains for a bulk of the activities that take place in Web 2.0 today. 
* Validity - Yet to prove it false, but from all my readings this is so far in my head true.

So now imagine force fitting a web page load onto a transaction based blockchain. We can't afford to go back to the days o spinning wheels on synchronous web page loads.

### Distributed everything, eventual and asynchronous.

So based on some of my early readings, there does seem to be a need for an asynchronous, eventually consistent distributed everything system that adheres to the ethos of decentralized computing. When compared with distributed systems, one key challenges emerges.
* Data has to be replicated on all nodes (not just a subset as it happens in traditional centralized distributed stores such as Cassandra/Dynamo/Spanner).
Which means, the replication factor is all by design but it can be eventual and asynchronous. Data will get replicated without any acknowledgement.
I will delve deeper in this direction and let's see where things land.

### Alternatives as of today

[Solana](https://solana.com/) is a potential alternative that claims to be the fastest blockchain out there. I took a cursory look at Solana architecture and I still couldn't find anything that was tailor made for eventual consistency. Solana is still a transaction based blockchain. They break down the world computer into smaller clusters so as to make transactions faster. These smaller clusters will eventually merge with the parent blockchain. So this is kind of a mix of strong consistency and eventual consistency, from what I understand. Needs some more reading.

There is so much to read and experiment in the Web 3.0 world, and I can't even begin to grapple the sheer volume of content that's out there. Fun times.