---
layout: post
title: Web 3.0 My understanding Part 2
---

### Common web apps in the distributed world.

The web 3.0 space is so full of content that many times I don't know where to
start and how to go about anything. Even just zooming in on blockchains yields a
plethora of information like there isn't one blockchain to focus on. So the
process of zooming in continues and you focus on let's say Ethereum. You then
realize heck Ethereum is another ocean very broad so lets zoom in just on
applications. So I am more or less constantly in this mode of zooming in.

It's just not sufficient to just keep zooming in, because you lose out on what's
happening outside the zoom raidius. So you need to keep a tab on what's
happening on the outer rims while you need to be able to zoom in to specific
planets and continue this process. 

At the expense of figuring out what's going on in the outer rims, I wonder how
the current web 2.0 applications will transition to the web 3.0 space.

Premise - All applications will eventually run on a global blockchain as
[Dapps](https://ethereum.org/en/dapps/?category=technology)

For this to become true, what does it take. I have no idea. So I thought I will
zoom in on some applications that are not related to finance. Why this caveat ?
Finance seems pretty straightforward at this point in time since most of finance
is transactions and transactions are well understood in the world of
blockchains. Other non transactional applications are a bit more nuanced. So I
thought of trying something outside transactions. [Gicoin](https://gitcoin.co/)
felt like a decent application for this purpose. It is still not clear to me how
Gitcoin works. All I know is that this is a way for decentralized payments for
open source developers.

Exploring Gitcoin led me to [Kernel](https://kernel.community/en/) and I will
try out their 8 week learning program. This should give me a slightly better
foundation to ask further questions and figure out what the transition of web
2.0 applications to web 3.0 will look like. Fingers crossed.




